---
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speaker_id: '267506'
date: '2024-11-06'
debate: ADJOURNMENT
chamber: House of Reps
electorate: Cook
party: LP
parliament: 2
session: 1
period: 0
utterance_id: AUH_2024-11-06-p2.s1.per0.reps.u90
source_file: 2024-11-06_reps.xml
summary: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (19:50): On Friday 20 September, my community gathered
  to commemorate National Police Remembrance Day at Woronora Memorial Park and Woronora
  cemetery, in the Sutherland Shire, where 24 police officers are buried or cremated.
  Thes...'
entities:
  people:
  - Peach
  organizations: []
  places:
  - Grays Point
  - Marine Rescue
  - Memorial Park
  - Superintendent Don
  - Sutherland
  - Sutherland Shire
  - Woronora Memorial
  legislation: []
themes:
- cost-of-living
- infrastructure
- community
- defense
subthemes:
- adjournment-debate
- volunteer-acknowledgement
- community-event
tags:
- ceremonial
- community
- cost-of-living
- defense
- infrastructure
- renewable-energy
speech_type: adjournment
rhetoric_intent: informational
policy_areas:
  primary: cost-of-living
  secondary:
  - infrastructure
  - community
  tertiary:
  - defense
political_stance:
  government_position: opposition
  criticism_targets: []
  support_targets: []
  coalition_alignment: LP member
legislative_metadata:
  bill_reference: null
  vote_position: null
  amendment_moved: false
  committee_reference: null
content_analysis:
  word_count: 747
  interruptions: 1
  quotes_included: 0
  statistical_claims: 0
key_mentions:
  opponents: []
  allies: []
local_references:
  suburbs:
  - Grays Point
  - Marine Rescue
  - Memorial Park
  - Superintendent Don
  - Sutherland
  - Sutherland Shire
  - Woronora Memorial
  infrastructure: []
  community_groups: []
  constituency_issues:
  - adjournment-debate
  - volunteer-acknowledgement
  - community-event
storytelling:
  personal_anecdotes: true
  constituent_stories: false
  historical_references: []
  emotional_appeals: []
evidence_base:
  statistics: []
  sources: []
  verification_status: unchecked
parliamentary_interaction:
  points_of_order_received: 0
  interjections_taken: 1
  procedural_interventions: 0
  cross_party_exchanges: []
communications_utility:
  quotable_phrases:
  - These men and women gave their lives to protect our community
  - The officers performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation for 30 minutes on a security
    guard who was in an altercation and tragically passed away
  - Constable Trent Paterson and Constable Corey Sainsbury chased an offender who
    was wanted for assault in Sutherland
  - The offender stopped while being pursued, produced a knife and aggressively approached
    the officers
  - Their quick thinking and willingness to protect those around them prevented further
    escalation and risk to the community
  soundbite_potential: high
  controversy_level: low
  local_news_value: high
  social_media_shareable: true
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (19:50): On Friday 20 September, my community gathered to commemorate National Police Remembrance Day at Woronora Memorial Park and Woronora cemetery, in the Sutherland Shire, where 24 police officers are buried or cremated. These men and women gave their lives to protect our community. It was an honour for me to join their fellow police officers, their families and their friends to commemorate what they gave, which was the ultimate sacrifice of their lives in protecting our community. Twenty-four of these officers are buried and cremated there. Eleven of those officers were killed in the local area command of St George, in the Sutherland Shire, and 13 from the rest of the state.

I'm incredibly proud of our police, who are working night and day to keep our community safe, putting their lives at risk, and I was incredibly proud last week to go to the Sutherland Shire Police Area Command medals and awards ceremony as well. It was a pleasure to join Superintendent Don Faulds, the commander of the Sutherland Shire Police Area Command, to recognise the valued members of the New South Wales Police Force in the Sutherland Shire.

The following officers and one community member received the commander's certificates of commendation: Chief Inspector Gary Ford, Sergeant Simon Moore, Leading Senior Constable Casey Beldon, Constable Jonah Sigal and Constable Miriam Suka. The officers performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation for 30 minutes on a security guard who was in an altercation and tragically passed away.

Constable Trent Paterson and Constable Corey Sainsbury chased an offender who was wanted for assault in Sutherland. The offender stopped while being pursued, produced a knife and aggressively approached the officers. Constable Paterson successfully deployed his taser. Their quick thinking and willingness to protect those around them prevented further escalation and risk to the community. Thank you, Trent and Corey.

Constable Jacqueline White and Constable Shannon Brennan also responded to a priority broadcast from Marine Rescue NSW in a collision on the Port Hacking river at Grays Point. They performed CPR on a female victim of the collision, while a helicopter hovered directly above them, causing strong gusts of winds and flying debris. Tragically, this woman was unable to be revived, but Constables White and Brennan assisted the family members of the deceased. Thank you for what you do.

Shawn Peach, a community member, was also recognised. He was driving when he saw a female standing on the footbridge railing over traffic. Mr Peach did not hesitate in stopping his vehicle under the footbridge to minimise the risk of a potential suicide attempt and immediately engaged the woman on top of the bridge. He gathered details and assisted police to help save the life of this potential suicide victim. Shawn is not a member of the police force; he's just a member of the community who stepped in and did the right thing. Like many thousands of members in the community of Cook, he exemplifies the volunteering and community spirit.

I would also like to recognise the following award recipients and thank them for their contributions to my community. The following officers received the New South Wales Police Medal, recognising 10 years of eligible service and commitment: Sergeant Michael Quick, Detective Senior Constable Jake Chalmers, Senior Constable Elisha Francis and Senior Constable Jacob Heagney. The following officers also received the first clasp to the New South Wales Police Medal for 15 years in service and for serving with integrity: Sergeant Trisha Laughlin, Leading Senior Constable Casey Beldon, Leading Senior Constable Mark Johnstone and Detective Senior Constable Howard Cunliffe.

The following officers received the second clasp to the New South Wales Police Medal for 20 years: Sergeant Trevor Hill, Sergeant Nathan Kirkwood, Sergeant Paul Watson, Sergeant Grayson Withers and Senior Constable Karlee Ball. The following officers received the third clasp to the New South Wales Police Medal for 25 years: Detective Sergeant Jane Scrivens, Sergeant Matthew Hecimovic and Sergeant Richard Hill.

The following officer received the fourth clasp to the New South Wales Police Medal for an incredible 30 years service: Chief Inspector Michael Stuart. The following officer received the fifth clasp to the New South Wales Police medal for 35 years: Chief Inspector Michael Stuart. The following officers received a warrant of appointment for promotion to sergeant and senior sergeant: Sergeant Trisha Laughlin, Sergeant Nathan Kirkwood, Sergeant Michael Quick and Sergeant Paul Watson. The following officers received the Commander's Certificates of Merit: Constable Natalie Overall and Senior Constable Anthony McLachlan.