---
chamber: REPS
date: '2024-08-19'
hansard_reference: 2024-08-19_reps u85
party: Liberal
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speech_id: AUH_2024-08-19-p2.s1.per0.reps.u85
state: Cook
title: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (10:36): Cronulla Surf Life Saving Club is the oldest of
  the four Bate Bay surf clubs, having been formed in 1907. Last month I had the privilege
  of attending their end-of-year presentation awards'
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (10:36): Cronulla Surf Life Saving Club is the oldest of the four Bate Bay surf clubs, having been formed in 1907. Last month I had the privilege of attending their end-of-year presentation awards. I congratulate Chris Ordenes, the recipient of the Bill Marshall OAM Memorial Award for the patrol person of the year. I also honour Jay Furness, who has been awarded the Tony Purcell Memorial Award for his exceptional contribution at the Australian Surf Life Saving Championships. Gregory Hewett has also been recognised with the Gibson Howlin Lawyers Award for his efforts in fundraising and innovation. Isabella Turner has also been awarded the Gibson Howlin Lawyers Award for her efforts in enhancing the reputation of the club. David Dalla-Camina has also been honoured with the Gibson Howlin Lawyers Award for his efforts in instruction and training of club members. The Luke and Jack Gibson Memorial Award for the most inspirational member went to Kasey Diver-Tuck.

In the masters competitor of the year category, we congratulated John Pleasance. The Ken Brown Award for the competitor who contributed most to the beach section at Aussies went to Nathan Breen. Steve Tatham and Gary Allman have been jointly awarded the Nick Dixon Memorial Boatman Trophy. Silvia Harvey was recognised for her outstanding contribution to the IRB section. The Outstanding Official Award went to Sophie Guilbert. We also congratulated Chris Barber, who received the Instructors Award. In the under-15 category for junior club person of the year, there were two outstanding members: Henry Schneider and Saorise O'Brien. In the under-17 category for junior club person of the year, Melvin Guilbert and Lucy Atken were recognised. Noah Duchet Catherine won the award in the under-19 category. Lastly, Zoe Duchet Catherine won the Most Improved Member Award.

I also take this opportunity to give a shout-out to Elouera Surf Life Saving Club's national championships. I congratulate Grant Wilkinson, Matt Guy, David Frew, Matt Norton and Daniel Ellice-Flint on winning the men's 160's master boat championship, and Michael Hanna on winning the men's open beach sprint.

Lastly, I congratulate Laura Barnett for winning the beach run, the beach sprint, the flags wade race, the surf race and the board race at the Australian adaptive youth championship. She is Elouera's first national champion from this event. Well done.