---
chamber: REPS
date: '2025-10-07'
hansard_reference: 2025-10-07_reps u86
party: Liberal
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speech_id: AUH_2025-10-07-p3.s1.per0.reps.u86
state: Cook
title: Acknowledgement of community members, volunteers, and supporters in the Cook
  electorate.
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (16:12): I'd like to acknowledge and congratulate all of the year 12 kids from the electorate of Cook on completing year 12 and wish them luck for the upcoming HSC exams. Specifically, I'd like to give a shout-out to a few exceptional students I was able to meet and give awards to. Firstly, at St Aloysius' College I was able to present the All Rounder Award to Harry Payne and Hannah Madigan, recognising their excellence across a range of academic, leadership and extracurricular disciplines. At Endeavour Sports High School, Natalia Pepic received the Creative and Performing Arts Award, while Danielle Thompson was recognised with the All Rounder Award. At Sylvania High School, Luka Pili was named Year 12 Leader of the Year. Congratulations, Luka!. At Woolooware High School, the Outstanding School and Community Commitment Award was given to Juliet Golding and Daniel Westwood. Then at Gymea Technology High School, Rhys Evans and Evan Moukatas received the All Round Achievement Award. Congratulations to you! At Our Lady of Mercy Catholic College, Burraneer, the Love of Literature Award was presented to Amelia Buhagiar. Then at De La Salle Catholic College, Taine Wihare received the Aspiring Citizen Award. At Caringbah High School, Hillary Chan and Audrey Wei were presented with the All Rounder Award. Congratulations to both of you! I wish all of the year 12 classes of 2025 in the Cook electorate all the best for the upcoming HSC.

I would also like to celebrate the centenary of Sylvania Public School. For over 100 years, Sylvania Public School has been a cornerstone of life in Sylvania. It's shaped generations of students and built bonds, not only among those students but among the parents, the P&C, the teachers and the community at large. I want to pay special tribute to the principal, Ms Jennifer Birch, the staff, both present and past, and the P&C, whose dedication has shaped this school's legacy. Thank you for the hard work and the contributions you make to the community each and every day in this special school in our electorate. To all of Sylvania school—today's students, yesterday's graduates and tomorrow's graduates—thank you for all you do. Thank you for what you do for our community. I hope the next 100 years will be just as fruitful and just as great as the last 100.