---
chamber: REPS
date: '2024-11-05'
hansard_reference: 2024-11-05_reps u95
party: Liberal
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speech_id: AUH_2024-11-05-p2.s1.per0.reps.u95
state: Cook
title: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (19:10): Madam Deputy Speaker, did you know that there were
  555 domestic violence incidents reported to Sutherland shire police last year, and
  over 37,000 reported across all of New South Wales. Also, Homelessness NSW estimates
  t...'
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (19:10): Madam Deputy Speaker, did you know that there were 555 domestic violence incidents reported to Sutherland shire police last year, and over 37,000 reported across all of New South Wales? Also, Homelessness NSW estimates that there are over 1½ thousand people who are homeless right now in the electorate of Cook. On Friday 25 October, Big Sister Foundation brought together seven amazing organisations that tackle both these issues: The Family Co., Project Youth, Kingsway Community Care, Dandelion Support Network, Hopefield, The Kogarah Storehouse and Georges River Life Care. Big Sister Foundation, chaired by Kim Brown, is one of the largest non-government funders of women's programs in my local area, donating over $6½ million over the last 12 years.

Firstly, I'd like to recognise The Family Co. The Family Co. are based in Jannali and were founded on the belief that all children and families deserve a safe home, strong connections and opportunities to thrive. The Family Co. work with short- and long-term clients, including women, families, young people and children who have experienced trauma, disadvantage or violence. The Family Co.'s services include domestic violence court advocacy; emotional preparedness and anger management courses; and youth mentorship and support, including casework, music based programs and school outreach programs. They also have Aboriginal support programs, including a playgroup and a homework group. I was particularly impressed by their Building Resilience in Children project, which, through group therapy, workshops and outreach to educators, focuses on early intervention for children who have experienced trauma. Their impact is massive: 6½ thousand people have been supported through their targeted early intervention programs, and they have made 4½ thousand referrals to the local police command and received almost 15,000 referrals from police. They have engaged almost 2,000 young people in social participation and support services. I would like to personally recognise the CEO of The Family Co., Ashleigh Daines; their Operations Manager, Michelle Fairweather; and their staff and volunteers. Thank you for the work you do in my community.

Secondly, I'd like to call out Project Youth, a great organisation based in Miranda. They support young people aged 12 to 24 in Sutherland shire, Georges River and Bayside. They help young people who need additional support to fulfil their potential, many of whom are facing homelessness, mental ill health, drug and alcohol dependency, family dysfunction, lack of education, unemployment, involvement in the criminal justice system, abuse, neglect and poverty. Project Youth focus on the prevention of youth homelessness through family intervention, legal help, mental health support, and education, focusing on kids who can't attend school. This year they've had to turn away over 553 referrals because of a lack of capacity—553, which is more than the number of students at some schools in my electorate. Over 40 young people have stayed in crisis accommodation nine months longer than the policy allows them to, as there is simply nowhere for them to go. To the CEO, Jody Darge, and all those who fundraise, partner or volunteer with this organisation: thank you.

Next is Kingsway Community Care, based in Caringbah. They are south-eastern Sydney's largest adult temporary and crisis housing provider. Kingsway Community Care have housed and supported 1½ thousand people since 2014. They operate programs such as Platform Nine, a safe and supportive space providing trauma-informed care and housing solutions for vulnerable people in my community; Jac-Pad, temporary crisis accommodation for women aged 18 to 25; and Seechange Op Shop, a thrift shop serving about 250 customers weekly, managed entirely by volunteers and also providing a free pantry for people in crisis.

Kingsway Community Care support people with housing. They have eight emergency rooms for women, men and young women. They have crisis accommodation for up to three months, with eight rooms for single women, three rooms for single men and additional rooms for women and young children. They also have transitional housing for up to 18 months in shared homes and tiny homes for single individuals and families. According to Stephanie Allen, who manages Platform Nine's housing:

Homelessness services are needed now more than ever with the skyrocketing cost of living disproportionately affecting the most vulnerable in our community. It takes a village as they say, and we are proud to be part of that village.

To Brook Stewart, the general manager, and staff, thank you for the work you do.

Dandelion Support Network based in Taren Point have made an incredible impact. In 2023 alone, more than 2,500 families were helped—almost 5,000 children—and Dandelion are on track to help the same if not more this year. They've supported over 125 families, and the organisation goes from strength to strength. They provide new and second-hand prams, cots, baby clothes and car seats donated by local families in the Sutherland Shire and St George areas.

I'd also like to recognise Hopefield. Hopefield are a great organisation who support vulnerable people. They operate out of Kirrawee and Cronulla and do important work with individuals, families and communities in my electorate. They offer health services such as psychology, counselling and speech pathology. In 2023 alone, Hopefield completed over 2,000 sessions with 250 new clients utilising a pay-as-you-go structure. Most of those services and appointments were subsidised by them. Hopefield also offers support services such as case management for complex housing needs, domestic violence support and meals for vulnerable community members. Hopefield supports over 60 individuals with case management services who face the risk of homelessness, mental health issues and domestic violence. In 2023, 600 food hampers were distributed by Hopefield and over 1,000 hot meals were served in my community. Further, they have community hubs which focus on social connectivity and education groups for those who experience isolation and challenges with parenting and life skills. Their women's social connection groups meet on Tuesday in Cronulla and Friday in Kirrawee. For men, they hold a group meeting on Thursdays in Cronulla. I would like to acknowledge the work they do. They've told me about visiting the national park and the many people from my community who are sleeping rough, camping in the national park, because they can't afford to pay rent or own a house. These often aren't just single people; sometimes they can be couples or even found families. Thank you for the work you do in my community.

Lastly, I would like to note we are holding the Cook volunteer awards on 21 February 2025. These awards are to recognise the strong ethos and volunteering culture we have in Cook—not only in Cook but right around Australia. To nominate a volunteer for an award, please go to my website www.simonkennedymp.com.au, where there's a nomination form. The deadline for nominations is 10 January 2025. The Cook Awards is an annual event that recognises the exceptional service provided by volunteers in Cook. Australia and Cook have a strong tradition of volunteering. Cook has four proud surf clubs that punch above their weight in national titles and have literally thousands of people in my community giving up their weekends and their weekdays to keep people safe. There's not a week that goes by without rescues and them saving people from drowning on Bate Bay. They're volunteering across sporting clubs, with one of the largest football associations in the entire southern hemisphere. There is also Surfrider. We have 10 per cent of the Boardriders of Australia. There are community organisations and environmental groups across all ages, including Marine Rescue, which is headland right on the Hacking River, where volunteers dedicate their time to support people who get in trouble in boats or on the water. Volunteering builds communities, and volunteering has built much of our nation. I call on those people in Cook to nominate those people who they think have been exceptional for a Cook Award in 2025.