---
chamber: REPS
date: '2024-06-05'
hansard_reference: 2024-06-05_reps u101
party: Liberal
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speech_id: AUH_2024-06-05-p2.s1.per0.reps.u101
state: Cook
title: Acknowledgement of community members, volunteers, and supporters in the Cook
  electorate.
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (09:36): I would like to acknowledge the Sutherland Shire Relay For Life. Earlier in May, 1,207 community members ran for over 24 hours in torrential rain and thunderstorms, raising $360,000 for cancer. I saw these abysmal conditions firsthand—puddles, sideways rain and very strong winds—and the participants were amazing. Also incredible were the volunteers, and they make it happen every year. They showed me what Cook is really about—the deep sense of community and care—and I'd like to acknowledge them.

The Sutherland Shire Relay For Life committee included Filipa Ferreira, Kim Guy, Tammi Hodge and Natalia Pisani. Those who worked on the marathon were Roy Coy; Glenn Nicholas; Shaen Crow; Illana Crowe; Cathy Mason; Rob Stanley-Jones, who was a great MC on the day; Harry Laycock, the photographer; Moira Campbell, who did the recruitment and volunteers; Kristina Wisniewski, who did registration; Kylie Springall; Phoebe Downes and Bibana Beaupark. Liz Vandermaal looked after schools and youth. Lesley Barratt and Therese Della Bosca worked on the banquet that evening. Richard Mason, Craig Winstanley, Blake Williams and Stefan Wisniewski worked on the audio-visual that day, rigging it up in the tents. Abi Simpson, Beth Standalolf, Crystal Gazeley, Deb Paciolla, Julie Webster, Leighton Wren, Lucy Ryan and Sharon Drake were volunteers on the day and coordinated them. Brent Collier, Melanie Dale and Tony Dale worked on Fight Back.

Sue Haynes and Lisa Dietrich looked after She Oak Grove. Bronwyn Mitchell, Helen Scott, Jenny Nicholas, Linda Burg, Sharon Sue Sheppard and Lorraine Donne looked after the survivors and carers of cancer. I'd also like to acknowledge Luke Kemmler and Brett Brosen; Emma Broadhurst and Kathryn Broadhurst, who took care of youth activities; and Jasper Downs, who took care of the youth stage and dancers. I'd also like to acknowledge the major clubs and sponsors: Tradies; Ansto; Carers Gateway; Caringbah Rotary, with Cathy and Richard Mason and the other Rotary volunteers; Genesis Care; Madame Foodie; Peak Health; and Pilates Power and Physiotherapy in Cronulla.

It was an amazing effort, and I want to thank all of those people and all of the participants for showing me what the community and care in Cook is all about.