---
chamber: REPS
date: '2025-09-01'
hansard_reference: 2025-09-01_reps u151
party: Liberal
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speech_id: AUH_2025-09-01-p3.s1.per0.reps.u151
state: Cook
title: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (16:37): The North Cronulla Surf Life Saving Club, in its
  100th year, has shown the strength and spirit of my local community with its annual
  awards. The CN Norm Rees Award went to Donna Hargreaves, the Mario Peryman Memorial
  Tro...'
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (16:37): The North Cronulla Surf Life Saving Club, in its 100th year, has shown the strength and spirit of my local community with its annual awards. The CN Norm Rees Award went to Donna Hargreaves, the Mario Peryman Memorial Trophy went to David Cannings, and the Patrons Award went to Wayne 'Tommy' Turner. The Junior Club Captain's Award was presented to Caden McDonald, and the Senior Club Captain's Award was presented to Alison Winkelmeier.

In lifesaving, the Brendan Lynch Award recognised James Doyle as the most outstanding senior patrol person, while Sonny and Boyd Bell received the David Cotter Award for most outstanding junior patrol person. Longstanding service was honoured, with Harrison Maddern, Emily Maythers, Kane Hughes and Martin Fulton achieving 10 and 20 years of perfect patrol attendance.

In competition, Emily Rampoldi was named most outstanding competitor, with honours to Sari McKee, Kaitlyn Williams and Scarlett Hoerr. The Purds as open male surf boat crew—sweep Adam Purdie with Zach Hughes, James Budd, Corey Dietrick and Tyrell Duff—earned the Brian Trouville Award for team achievement.

Special mention goes to coach of the year Tom Rampoldi and official of the year Liam Munro. Congratulations to all recipients. Your service, teamwork and community pride are an inspiration to all our community.