---
chamber: REPS
date: '2025-02-10'
hansard_reference: 2025-02-10_reps_committees u59
party: Liberal
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speech_id: AUH_2025-02-10-p2.s1.per0.reps.u59
state: Cook
title: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:51): I congratulate Terry O''Hara on his OAM for 36
  years with the St Vincent de Paul Society Oyster Bay conference. He also volunteers
  with TOFS, who organise outings for retired or semi-retired men'
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:51): I congratulate Terry O'Hara on his OAM for 36 years with the St Vincent de Paul Society Oyster Bay conference. He also volunteers with TOFS, who organise outings for retired or semi-retired men. Well done, Terry.

I'm delighted to announce that an elected coalition government will invest $674,000 to upgrade the field lighting at Gwawley Park's north oval. This funding will ensure the members of the Taren Point Titans Rugby League Club as well as the Taren Point Touch Association can play and train safely in the evenings. Many thanks to the hundreds of locals who signed the petition.

Did you know the Cronulla Sharks NRLW team currently have no fit-for-purpose change rooms for female players? Female players don't have private showers, don't have room for a physio and don't have their own purpose-built change rooms. If elected, a coalition government will contribute $4 million, to be matched by the Cronulla Sharks, to construct change rooms for those teams. I'm proud to deliver for the thousands of locals who've got behind this initiative.

In Oyster Bay, the Oyster Bay oval is used by over 1,000 players and students from the local public schools and Georges River Football Club. Preparing the fields for this volume of use is no easy task, and the club is dependent on so many volunteers. That's why an elected Liberal government would contribute $35,000 to fund a new line-marking machine.