---
chamber: REPS
date: '2024-08-13'
hansard_reference: 2024-08-13_reps u45
party: Liberal
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speech_id: AUH_2024-08-13-p2.s1.per0.reps.u45
state: Cook
title: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (16:04): The member for Robertson just spent four of his
  five minutes talking about the opposition...'
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (16:04): The member for Robertson just spent four of his five minutes talking about the opposition. It's not hard to understand why, because there's not much that is positive to talk about, though in the one minute he did start talking about the government and its policies he talked about energy bill relief, without any hint of irony as well. There he was, high-fiving and celebrating a $300 subsidy—the gall.

Dr Reid interjecting—

Mr KENNEDY: The government promised $275 of bill relief. Prices in my electorate have gone up by up to $1,000, yet there you are smiling and being smarmy. You're celebrating a $300 subsidy when prices are up by $1,000. In what world do you think that's positive? There you are high-fiving and celebrating tax cuts when the average Australian cannot make ends meet.

The DEPUTY SPEAKER ( Dr Freelander ): Can I just remind the member for Cook to address his remarks through the Speaker.

Mr KENNEDY: Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker. The member is talking about these things, celebrating them, and I'm left confused and my electorate's left confused. Only last week I was talking to a single mum at St Vincent's Gymea who is facing homelessness. She's not celebrating these tax cuts. She's not celebrating this energy relief. These people are hurting. They're not laughing, smiling and talking about how good a budget surplus is. She's worried about where her and her disabled son are going to live.

I know a teacher looking at moving out of New South Wales to WA. I'd ask the member for Robertson to explain to the teacher in Cronulla who can't afford to buy a house why they need to be looking at moving over a five-hour flight away from the rest of their family. It's because they cannot afford to buy a house or pay the rent. They're not celebrating that.

Dr Reid interjecting—

The DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! The member is entitled to be heard in silence.

Mr KENNEDY: The member for Robertson keeps interjecting, probably wanting to celebrate his energy subsidy, tax cuts and the like, but he's clearly not listening. He's not listening to his constituents. I'm sure his constituents in Robertson would be telling him that.

Australia is doing worse than all other G10 countries. Why does Australia have higher inflation than the other G10 countries? I invite the next member from the government to explain to me why Australia's inflation is higher than in every other G10 country. That question's been asked a lot, but I still haven't heard an answer. I'm genuinely curious.

I'm also genuinely curious as to why they think the RBA is saying Australia is going to have higher inflation for longer. What is the answer to that? I'd also like the explanation for why independent economist after independent economist is blaming public spending for contributing to inflation, yet the government don't want to take any ownership of it. Shane Oliver said the RBA's job would be a lot easier if it weren't for government spending. Warwick McKibbin is also saying the government's policies are adding to inflation. We have had independent economist after independent economist agree with this. Please explain this to me and to the rest of Australia.

After two years of Labor stewardship, Australians are being crushed by inflation and they are in a per capita recession. What does that mean? Over the last year, Australian families have been getting poorer. Forty-nine per cent of Australians have been cold this winter due to fears of higher electricity prices. They've decided not to heat their houses just to save money. They're not high-fiving about a one-off $300 subsidy that's disappearing into the ether. It's not surprising that Labor believes the answer to higher electricity prices and higher childcare costs is more subsidies and more government.

On this side of the House, we believe the answer to higher inflation is lower prices. It's lower prices from actually investing in supply, not pulling it off early. It's about not taking away energy supply but keeping it there and investing in more and more energy supply. It's not about subsidising child care. It's about more childcare centres to lower the prices.

What is the result of these one-off subsidies? Net disposable income per capita has fallen 7Â½ per cent. 'What would the Liberals do?' I hear them ask on the other side. A coalition government would focus on increasing supply of energy. We wouldn't be closing down energy supply; we'd be adding to it. This Labor government is under the impression that it's small-target, subsidy-driven set of policies is going make it more electable. The Australian population can see through it. We would also cut wasteful spending. Labor has spent $30,000 for the average household. I can tell you that households in my electorate of Cook and, I'm sure, in the electorate of Robertson do not feel $30,000 better off under this government.