---
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speaker_id: '267506'
date: '2025-02-10'
debate: CONSTITUENCY STATEMENTS
chamber: House of Reps
electorate: Cook
party: LP
parliament: 2
session: 1
period: 0
utterance_id: AUH_2025-02-10-p2.s1.per0.reps.u105
source_file: 2025-02-10_reps_committees.xml
summary: Acknowledgement of community members, volunteers, and supporters in the Cook
  electorate.
entities:
  people: []
  organizations:
  - Barden Ridgebacks Football Club
  - Cronulla Boardriders Club
  - Elouera Surf Club
  places:
  - Cronulla
  - France
  - Inaburra School
  - Sutherland Shire
  legislation: []
themes:
- education
- infrastructure
- community
- environment
subthemes:
- constituency-statement
- volunteer-acknowledgement
- infrastructure-funding
tags:
- ceremonial
- community
- constituency-statement
- education
- environment
- infrastructure
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (10:54): I'd like to acknowledge some recent award recipients in the Sutherland shire. Most recently, John Veage was awarded the 2025 Citizen of the Year. If you've seen a photo of someone in the Leader or you've seen a photo of someone surfing at the Alley, there's a pretty good chance John took the photo. John, or Veagey as he is known around the shire, was a founding member of the Cronulla Boardriders Club and president of Surfing Sutherland Shire. He was the official photographer for 39 years at our local newspaper, the Leader. Next up, Veagey is looking at having a surfing museum in Cronulla so Loretta can help him get rid of the 100-plus boards they're storing around their house. I'm going to support him to get it done.

I'd also like to acknowledge Harrison Edwards, the Young Citizen of the Year. Harrison, who is 12 years old and in year 8 at Inaburra School, is a volunteer for the Barden Ridgebacks Football Club. He has made an amazing contribution to that community.

Project Youth won Community Group of the Year. I've spoken about them many times before. They help young people facing homelessness. They've received over 500 referrals in the last year that they've had to turn away, so I hope they can get more funding to help homelessness in my local electorate.

Rhonda Daniels got Environmental Citizen of the Year. Rhonda has volunteered with Bushcare for over 20 years. Congratulations to Rhonda on what you're doing for our local environment.

Dan Michel got Sports Citizen of the Year. Many of the local residents in my community were awake in the early hours of the morning while Dan was in France winning a silver medal in the recent Paralympics with his ramp assistant, Ashlee Maddern. Well done, Dan.

Jarvis Earle got Young Sports Citizen of the Year. Jarvis is an amazing young surfer from Cronulla and has won many awards, including the Australian junior open championships and the Australian Open of Surfing.

I'd also like to acknowledge the Order of Australia recipients in my local community. Michael Byrne was appointed as an Member of the Order of Australia for significant service to the transport industry and his community. Michael was a former CEO of Linfox and advised the government on logistics and supply chain issues during the COVID pandemic. Michael's also volunteered for Elouera Surf Club, has played soccer for 48 years and has played cricket for 38 years.

Paul Archer received an Order of Australia medal for service to rugby league, having served for 50 years as a referee and served as president of Canterbury-Bankstown referees association.

Graeme Wynn also received an Order of Australia medal for his service to rugby league. He was a member of the inaugural New South Wales Blues origin team in 1980, played 230 games for St George and Western Suburbs and won a premiership with the Dragons in 1979.