---
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speaker_id: '267506'
date: '2024-11-26'
debate: STATEMENTS BY MEMBERS
chamber: House of Reps
electorate: Cook
party: LP
parliament: 2
session: 1
period: 0
utterance_id: AUH_2024-11-26-p2.s1.per0.reps.u20
source_file: 2024-11-26_reps.xml
summary: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:42): The lighting at Gwawley Park in Taren Point is
  substandard. I am very pleased that the AFL Sharks and the AFL Southern Dingoes
  have received a grant for new lighting on the AFL fields, which will bring it up
  to where it ...'
entities:
  people: []
  organizations: []
  places:
  - Gwawley Park
  - Taren Point
  legislation: []
themes:
- cost-of-living
- education
- community
subthemes:
- constituency-statement
tags:
- community
- cost-of-living
- education
- member-statement
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:42): The lighting at Gwawley Park in Taren Point is substandard. I am very pleased that the AFL Sharks and the AFL Southern Dingoes have received a grant for new lighting on the AFL fields, which will bring it up to where it should be so they can train at night-time. They are very well-run clubs. They've got a great community and great spirit. It's not uncommon to go down there on a weekend and see multiple generations of families playing and training together, parents and kids, with a very well-run club under Mark Wilson.

Unfortunately, on the other side of Gwawley Park, the Taren Point Titans are training under very poor lighting, which has not been upgraded. I am going to fight for the Taren Point Titans to also get their lighting upgrade funded. They are a proud and thriving community with 25 teams and 470 registered players, including 214 male players and 152 female players. I am committed to fight for this great club and to improve their conditions so the fields can be better utilised.

I would like to recognise their executives: their president, Jay; secretary, Adam; senior vice-presidents, Craig and Leah; Treasurer, Julie; assistant secretary, Kim; and Brett Robinson. I will fight for you. Please sign my petition to upgrade the lighting at Taren Point Titans, so we can make Gwawley Park great again.