---
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speaker_id: '267506'
date: '2024-11-05'
debate: STATEMENTS BY MEMBERS
chamber: House of Reps
electorate: Cook
party: LP
parliament: 2
session: 1
period: 0
utterance_id: AUH_2024-11-05-p2.s1.per0.reps.u26
source_file: 2024-11-05_reps.xml
summary: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:51): Last Sunday, my community celebrated the 41st
  Gymea Village Festival. My family and I walked along Gymea Village with around 50,000
  others from my community'
entities:
  people:
  - Joanne Nicholls
  - Melanie Gibbons
  organizations:
  - Councillor Melanie Gibbons and Council
  - Gymea Hotel and the Sutherland Shire Council
  places:
  - Gymea
  - Gymea Bay
  - Sutherland Shire
  legislation: []
themes:
- education
- infrastructure
- community
- small-business
subthemes:
- constituency-statement
- volunteer-acknowledgement
tags:
- ceremonial
- community
- education
- infrastructure
- member-statement
- small-business
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:51): Last Sunday, my community celebrated the 41st Gymea Village Festival. My family and I walked along Gymea Village with around 50,000 others from my community. There were around 200 quality stores from local vendors like Taylor Made Tea. There were lots of rides for the kids, show bags and perfect weather. Many great local businesses are permanently in Gymea, such as the Gymea Lily, Nina's Chocolates, OMG Decadent Donuts Sutherland Shire, C3 Training Gymea and Chapman Lane, just to name a few.

I'd like to recognise the organisers and sponsors: the Cambridge Markets, Gymea Village and Gymea Chamber of Commerce, Tynan Hyundai, Stone Real Estate, Gymea Hotel and the Sutherland Shire Council. I would also like to recognise and thank our local councillors, Councillor Melanie Gibbons and Councillor Joanne Nicholls, for their support of this great community.

I also spoke with the community members about the dismal state of Gymea Bay Baths. I've raised a petition that has attracted hundreds of signatures to clean up this asset and clean out that water. This petition can be found on my website. Locals are pitching in. Baycare Gymea Bay exemplifies what's great about our local community. Locals are pitching in every week. Families are down there cleaning up rubbish and working to keep the water clean. It's time for government to do its part too.