---
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speaker_id: '267506'
date: '2024-08-22'
debate: STATEMENTS BY MEMBERS
chamber: House of Reps
electorate: Cook
party: LP
parliament: 2
session: 1
period: 0
utterance_id: AUH_2024-08-22-p2.s1.per0.reps.u48
source_file: 2024-08-22_reps.xml
summary: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:51): Gymea Bay Baths in my electorate should be revitalised.
  The Gymea Bay Baths, a place where many children in my electorate learn to swim,
  are usually unsuitable because of poor water quality, rubbish and fishing debris'
entities:
  people: []
  organizations: []
  places:
  - Gymea Bay
  legislation: []
themes:
- community
subthemes:
- constituency-statement
- infrastructure-funding
tags:
- community
- member-statement
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:51): Gymea Bay Baths in my electorate should be revitalised. The Gymea Bay Baths, a place where many children in my electorate learn to swim, are usually unsuitable because of poor water quality, rubbish and fishing debris. Recently, they were heavily polluted by a storm which brought 10 tonnes of flood debris and 180 metres of netting. I recently visited these baths with our shadow minister, Jonno Duniam. Jonno, like me, is committed to seeing these baths restored to their former glory. The state of these facilities is just not good enough, and residents have had to put up with filthy water and rubbish in what used to be a picturesque and beautiful swimming hole.

But local organisations have been leading the charge. Baycare Gymea Bay demonstrates what is great about my local community. Locals founded Baycare in 2023. They don't sit around and wait for government. Twice a week, you can see these families with kids as young as seven cleaning up, picking up rubbish and putting it in bins. I'm committed to fighting for Gymea Bay Baycare to get funding to restore these baths to their former glory. I commend these local organisations, local families and local community groups for stepping up. It's time for us to give them support. I'll be fighting for them to get funding to restore Gymea Bay Baths.