---
speaker: Kennedy, Simon MP
speaker_id: '267506'
date: '2025-07-24'
debate: STATEMENTS BY MEMBERS
chamber: House of Reps
electorate: Cook
party: LP
parliament: 3
session: 1
period: 0
utterance_id: AUH_2025-07-24-p3.s1.per0.reps.u39
source_file: 2025-07-24_reps_parliamentary_office_holders.xml
summary: 'Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:51): I''d like to honour the life of Julie Fitzsimons.
  Julie was a beloved mother, grandmother and wife whose generosity and courage left
  a lasting mark on many in my local community'
entities:
  people: []
  organizations:
  - Cronulla Sharks Water Polo Club
  - Nicole Fitzsimons Foundation
  - The RSL
  - We received almost a thousand signatures and the community has had a massive win
    as the Sutherland Shire Council
  places:
  - May
  - Sutherland Shire
  - Thailand
  legislation: []
themes:
- community
subthemes:
- constituency-statement
tags:
- ceremonial
- community
- member-statement
---

Mr KENNEDY (Cook) (13:51): I'd like to honour the life of Julie Fitzsimons. Julie was a beloved mother, grandmother and wife whose generosity and courage left a lasting mark on many in my local community.

After losing her daughter Nicole in a tragic motorbike accident in Thailand in 2012, Julie channelled her grief into action, helping establish the Nicole Fitzsimons Foundation, promoting travel safety and supporting young Australians in sport and the arts. Julie was the heart of this foundation, but, in May, she was tragically struck by a car and lost her life while visiting her daughter. It was a tragic accident. We extend our deepest condolences to Vince, Kate, Matt and her grandsons.

I'd also like to celebrate a massive win for my local community with the Gunnamatta Pavilion upgrade. The RSL swim club, the Cronulla Sharks Water Polo Club, the canoe club and the triathlon club did not have adequate facilities. We launched a petition, and the community got behind it. We received almost a thousand signatures and the community has had a massive win as the Sutherland Shire Council has listened to them, revising their plan and creating adequate facilities for each of those clubs. Congratulations to the clubs and to all the community members who got behind the petition.